docs/docs/reference/env-vars.md, before:

---
description: Environment variables defined by Semaphore
---

# Environment variables

## Semaphore variables {#semaphore-variables}

These variables describe various aspects of Semaphore workings.

### CI {#ci}

- **Environment variable**: `CI`
- **Example**: `true`

Holds `true` when the session runs in a Semaphore continuous integration (CI) environment.

### Semaphore {#semaphore}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE`
- **Example**: `true`

Holds `true` when the session is running in a Semaphore environment.

### Agent environment type {#agent-machine-environment-type}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_AGENT_MACHINE_ENVIRONMENT_TYPE`
- **Example**: `container`

Defines the type of environment for the current job.

Possible values are:

- `container`: job running inside a Docker container
- `VM`: job running on a virtual machine

### Agent OS image {#agent-machine-os-image}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_AGENT_MACHINE_OS_IMAGE`
- **Example**: `ubuntu2004`

The name of the operating system image active in the current job.

See [machine types](./machine-types) for all available options.

### Agent machine type {#agent-machine-type}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_AGENT_MACHINE_TYPE`
- **Example**: `e1-standard-2`

The type of agent running the current job.

See [machine types](./machine-types) for all available options.

### Job creation time {#job-creation-time}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_JOB_CREATION_TIME`
- **Example**: `1632943641`

The UNIX epoch seconds when the current job was created.

### Job id {#job-id}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_JOB_ID`
- **Example**: `a26d42cf-89ac-4c3f-9e2d-51bb231897bf`

The unique identifier for the current job. Semaphore automatically generates unique IDs for every job.

You can view all the job IDs using the [sem CLI](./semaphore-cli):

- **Get active jobs**: execute `sem get jobs`
- **Get most recent jobs**: execute `sem get jobs --all`

### Job name {#job-name}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_JOB_NAME`
- **Example**: `Push image to Docker`

A string with a user-supplied name for the job.

### Job count {#job-count}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_JOB_COUNT`
- **Example**: 4

Only available when [job parallelism](../using-semaphore/jobs#job-parallelism) is enabled. This variable holds the total number of jobs configured in job parallelism.

It can be used to configure a test partitioning strategy using a 3rd party test runner.

### Job index {#job-index}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_JOB_INDEX`
- **Example**: 1

Only available when [job parallelism](../using-semaphore/jobs#job-parallelism) is enabled. This is a 1-based index that represents the current job instance in parallel set. The value ranges between 1 and [`SEMAPHORE_JOB_COUNT`](#job-count).

It can be used to configure a test partitioning strategy using a 3rd party test runner.

### Job result {#job-result}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_JOB_RESULT`
- **Example**: `passed`

Describes the ending state of the job. The possible states are:

- `none`: the job has not yet finished
- `passed`: the job finished successfully
- `failed`: the job finished in failure
- `stopped`: the job was terminated before completion

:::note

This variable is only available in the [job epilogue](../using-semaphore/jobs#epilogue).

:::

### Job type {#job-type}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_JOB_TYPE`
- **Example**: `pipeline_job`

Describes why the current job was created. The possible values are:

- `pipeline_job`: a regular job created by Semaphore as part of the workflow
- `project_debug_job`: job created with [`sem debug project`](./semaphore-cli#sem-debug-project)
- `debug_job`: job created with [`sem debug job`](./semaphore-cli#sem-debug)

### Block name {#block-name}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_BLOCK_NAME`
- **Example**: `Security checks`

A string with a user-supplied block name.

### Organization URL {#organization-url}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_ORGANIZATION_URL`
- **Example**: `https://my-org.semaphoreci.com`

The URL for the organization that owns the project running the current job.

### Pipeline ID {#pipeline-id}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_PIPELINE_ID`
- **Example**: `ea3e6bba-d19a-45d7-86a0-e78a2301b616`

The unique identifier for the current workflow. All jobs that belong to the same pipeline share the same ID.

### Pipeline name {#pipeline-name}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_PIPELINE_NAME`
- **Example**: `my-pipeline`

The name of the pipeline.

### Pipeline is promotion {#pipeline-promotion}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_PIPELINE_PROMOTION`
- **Example**: `true`

Holds `true` when the pipeline was started due to a [promotion](../using-semaphore/promotions). It is always `false` for the initial pipeline that starts the workflow.

### Pipeline promoted by {#pipeline-promoted-by}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_PIPELINE_PROMOTED_BY`
- **Example**: `torvalds`

Determines the individual that promoted the pipeline. There are three possible cases:

- **Initial pipelines**: the variable contains an empty string
- **Manual promotions**: the GitHub or BitBucket username that manually promoted the pipeline
- [Auto-promotions](../using-semaphore/promotions#automatic-promotions): the value is `auto-promotion`

### Pipeline is rerun {#pipeline-rerun}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_PIPELINE_RERUN`
- **Example**: `true`

Holds `true` when the pipeline is rerun by the user.

### Project ID {#project-id}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_PROJECT_ID`
- **Example**: `0dd982e8-32f5-4037-983e-4de01ac7fb1e`

The project unique identifier that the job session belongs to. Semaphore automatically assigns unique IDs to every project.

### Project name {#project-name}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_PROJECT_NAME`
- **Example**: `my-awesome-project`

The name of the project that a job belongs to.

### Workflow ID {#workflow-id}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_WORKFLOW_ID`
- **Example**: `0dd982e8-32f5-4037-983e-4de01ac7fb1e`

The workflow unique identifier. All jobs belonging to all pipelines in the workflow share this same ID. This includes the initial pipeline and all manually or auto-promoted pipelines in the same build.

### Workflow number {#workflow-number}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_WORKFLOW_NUMBER`
- **Example**: `42`

This value tracks how many workflows have run for the current branch, tag, or pull request. Each context starts at `1`, and the counter increases by one on every push or workflow rerun within that same branch, tag, or pull request. Debug jobs do not increment the number.

The value remains constant during a workflow run and is available to all jobs in every pipeline that belongs to the workflow, including the initial pipeline and any manually or auto-promoted pipelines in the same build.

### Workflow is rerun {#workflow-rerun}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_WORKFLOW_RERUN`
- **Example**: `true`

Holds `true` if the workflow is a rerun of a previously-ran workflow.

### Workflow triggered by {#workflow-triggered-by}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_WORKFLOW_TRIGGERED_BY`
- **Example**: `torvalds`

Determines the GitHub or BitBucket username for the individual who ran the workflow.

### Workflow is triggered by API {#workflow-triggered-by-api}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_WORKFLOW_TRIGGERED_BY_API`
- **Example**: `true`

Holds `true` if the workflow was triggered using the [Semaphore API](../reference/api)

<!-- new api: [Semaphore API](../openapi-spec/workflows-schedule) -->

The variable is `false` if the workflow is triggered by a Git push, pull request, or via [Tasks](../using-semaphore/tasks).

### Workflow is triggered by hook {#workflow-triggered-by-hook}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_WORKFLOW_TRIGGERED_BY_HOOK`
- **Example**: `true`

Holds `true` if the workflow was triggered by a Git push to the repository. It's also true for Git tags and pull requests.

The variable is `false` when the workflow is triggered via the [Semaphore API](./api) or using [Tasks](../using-semaphore/tasks).

<!-- [Semaphore API](../category/api-specification) -->

### Workflow is triggered manually {#workflow-triggered-by-manual-run}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_WORKFLOW_TRIGGERED_BY_MANUAL_RUN`
- **Example**: `true`

Holds `true` if the workflow was triggered by a user through the Semaphore UI.

The variable is `false` when the workflow is triggered by Git push, pull request, Tasks, or the [Semaphore API](./api).

<!-- [Semaphore API](../category/api-specification). -->

### Workflow is triggered by task {#workflow-triggered-by-schedule}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_WORKFLOW_TRIGGERED_BY_SCHEDULE`
- **Example**: `true`

Holds `true` if the workflow was triggered using [Tasks](../using-semaphore/tasks).

## Git repository variables {#git-variables}

These variables give Git-related information about the repository that is liked to the project the job is running.

### Branch (upstream) {#git-branch}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_GIT_BRANCH`
- **Example**: `main`

The Git branch is used in the current job. On pull requests, the value is the name of the upstream branch targeted by the merge.

For example, if you create a branch called `featureA` and create a pull request to merge to `main`, then `SEMAPHORE_GIT_BRANCH=main`.

### Working branch (downstream) {#git-working-branch}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_GIT_WORKING_BRANCH`
- **Example**: `featureA`

The name of the branch used in the current job. On pull request, this is the downstream branch that would be merged.

For example, if you create a branch called `featureA` and create a pull request to merge to `main`, then `SEMAPHORE_GIT_WORKING_BRANCH=featureA`.

:::note

The variable is *missing* when the workflow is triggered by pushing the Git tag.

:::

### Commit author {#commit-author}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_GIT_COMMIT_AUTHOR`
- **Example**: `torvalds`

The GitHub or Bitbucket username of the person who authored the revision.

### Commit range {#commit-range}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_GIT_COMMIT_RANGE`
- **Example**: `5c84719708b9b649b9ef3b56af214f38cee6acde...92d87d5c0dd2dbb7a68ecb27df43d1b164fd3e30`

The range of SHA commits that were included in a push or pull request.

This is empty for builds triggered by the initial commit of a new branch or tag.

### Commit SHA {#commit-sha}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_GIT_SHA`
- **Example**: `5c84719708b9b649b9ef3b56af214f38cee6acde`

The current Git SHA revision of the code that the job is using.

### Cache age {#git-cache-age}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_GIT_CACHE_AGE`
- **Example**: `259200`

Used only when running [`checkout --use-cache`](./toolbox#cache-full-clone). It specifies how often the Semaphore Git Cache is updated, expressed in seconds. The default is 259200 (3 days).

### Cache keep {#git-cache-keep}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_GIT_CACHE_KEEP`
- **Example**: `1`

Used only when running [`checkout --use-cache`](./toolbox#cache-full-clone). It how many copies of the repository should be maintained in the Semaphore Git Cache. Older copies are automatically deleted.

The default value is 0, which means that Semaphore maintains only 1 copy of the repository. If you set it to 1, Semaphore will maintain 2 copies of the repository.

### Committer {#committer}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_GIT_COMMITTER`
- **Example**: `torvalds`

The GitHub or Bitbucket username of the person who authored the revision.

### Depth {#git-depth}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_GIT_DEPTH`
- **Example**: `50`

Holds the shallow clone depth level for the [checkout](./toolbox.md#checkout) command. The default value is 50.

### Git provider {#git-provider}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_GIT_PROVIDER`
- **Example**: `bitbucket`, `github`

The Git provider the repository is hosted on. Possible values are `bitbucket` or `github`.

### Git reference {#git-reference}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_GIT_REF`
- **Example**: `refs/heads/master`

The Git reference the commit that the job is using.

### Git reference type {#git-reference-type}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_GIT_REF_TYPE`
- **Example**: `branch`, `tag`, or `pull-request`

The type of Git reference. Possible values are: `branch`, `tag`, or `pull-request`.

### Git URL {#git-url}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_GIT_URL`
- **Example**: `http://git@github.com:semaphoreci/toolbox.git`

The URL of the repository used in the current Semaphore project.

### Pull request branch {#pr-branch}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_GIT_PR_BRANCH`
- **Example**: `featureA`

The name of the Git branch from which the Pull Request originated (upstream)

:::note

Present only for builds where `SEMAPHORE_GIT_REF_TYPE=pull-request`

:::

### Pull request name {#pr-name}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_GIT_PR_NAME`
- **Example**: `Update Readme.md`

The name of the Pull Request that originated the workflow.

:::note

Present only for builds where `SEMAPHORE_GIT_REF_TYPE=pull-request`

:::

### Pull request number {#pr-number}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_GIT_PR_NUMBER`
- **Example**: `1`

The number of the Pull Request.

:::note

Present only for builds where `SEMAPHORE_GIT_REF_TYPE=pull-request`

:::

### Pull request SHA {#pr-sha}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_GIT_PR_SHA`
- **Example**: `5c84719708b9b649b9ef3b56af214f38cee6acd3`

The Git SHA of the HEAD commit of the Pull Request.

:::note

Present only for builds where `SEMAPHORE_GIT_REF_TYPE=pull-request`

:::

### Pull request slug {#pr-slug}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_GIT_PR_SLUG`
- **Example**: `semaphoreci/semaphore`

The name in the format `owner_name/repo_name` of the repository from which the Pull Request originated.

To distinguish workflows from original and forked repositories, you can compare [`SEMAPHORE_GIT_PR_SLUG`](#pr-slug) and [`SEMAPHORE_GIT_REPO_SLUG`](#git-repo-slug) environment variables.

:::note

Present only for builds where `SEMAPHORE_GIT_REF_TYPE=pull-request`

:::

### Repository directory {#git-dir}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_GIT_DIR`
- **Example**: `src`

The name of the directory that contains the files of the repository linked to the current Semaphore project.

### Repository name {#git-repo-name}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_GIT_REPO_NAME`
- **Example**: `my-awesome-app`

The name of the Git repository name for the current Semaphore project.

### Repository slug {#git-repo-slug}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_GIT_REPO_SLUG`
- **Example**: `semaphoreci/my-awesome-app`

The repository name in the form `owner/repo-name` for the current Semaphore project.

### Tag name {#git-tag-name}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_GIT_TAG_NAME`
- **Example**: `v1.0.0`

The name of the Git tag used in the current job.

:::note

Present only for builds where `SEMAPHORE_GIT_REF_TYPE=tag`.

:::

## After pipeline variables

The following variables are available during [after pipeline jobs](../using-semaphore/pipelines#after-pipeline-job).

### Pipeline created at {#pipeline-created-at}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_PIPELINE_CREATED_AT`
- **Example**: `1632943641`

The UNIX epoch timestamp when the pipeline was created.

### Pipeline done at {#pipeline-done-at}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_PIPELINE_DONE_AT`
- **Example**: `1632943650`

The UNIX epoch timestamp when the pipeline was finished.

### Pipeline init duration {#pipeline-init-duration}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_PIPELINE_INIT_DURATION`
- **Example**: `1`

Duration of the pipeline initialization stage expressed in seconds.

### Pipeline queueing duration {#pipeline-queueing-duration}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_PIPELINE_QUEUEING_DURATION`
- **Example**: `1`

The time that the pipeline spent in the queue is expressed in seconds.

### Pipeline result {#pipeline-result}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_PIPELINE_RESULT`
- **Example**: `failed`, `passed`, `canceled`, `stopped`

Contains the result of the pipeline. Possible values are: `failed`, `passed`, `canceled`, `stopped`

### Pipeline result reason {#pipeline-result-reason}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_PIPELINE_RESULT_REASON`
- **Example**: `test`, `malformed`, `stuck`, `internal`, `user`, `strategy`, `timeout`

The reason for the pipeline result. Possible values are: `test`, `malformed`, `stuck`, `internal`, `user`, `strategy`, `timeout`

### Pipeline running duration {#pipeline-running-duration}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_PIPELINE_RUNNING_DURATION`
- **Example**: `12`

The total pipeline execution time is expressed in seconds.

### Pipeline started at {#pipeline-started-at}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_PIPELINE_STARTED_AT`
- **Example**: `1632943642`

The UNIX epoch timestamp when the pipeline started running jobs.

### Pipeline total duration {#pipeline-total-duration}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_PIPELINE_TOTAL_DURATION`
- **Example**: `10`

The total duration of the pipeline including queuing time expressed in seconds.

## Cache variables {#cache-variables}

These variables are used to access the [cache](../using-semaphore/cache).

### Cache URL {#cache-url}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_CACHE_URL`
- **Example**: `94.130.158.146:29920`

The IP address and the port number of the cache server.

### Username {#cache-username}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_CACHE_USERNAME`
- **Example**: `0614ef08af7a408d8aae45b029ba3bb8`

The username is used for connecting to the cache server.

### Private Key Path {#cache-private-key-path}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_CACHE_PRIVATE_KEY_PATH`
- **Example**: `/home/semaphore/.ssh/semaphore_cache_key`

The path in the server to the SSH key file to access the cache server.

## Semaphore Docker registry variables {#registry-variables}

These variables can be used to access the [Semaphore Docker registry](../using-semaphore/containers/docker).

### Username {#registry-username}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_REGISTRY_USERNAME`

Username to access the Semaphore Docker Registry.

### Password {#registry-password}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_REGISTRY_PASSWORD`

Password to access the Semaphore Docker Registry.

### Registry URL {#registry-url}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_REGISTRY_URL`

The URL to access the Semaphore Docker Registry.

## Initialization job variables {#init}

This section describes the special variables available during the [initialization jobs](../using-semaphore/pipelines#init-job) and [pre-flight checks](../using-semaphore/org-preflight) in addition to the regular job environment variables explained above.

### Input file {#input-file}

- **Environment variable**: `INPUT_FILE`
- **Default value**: `.semaphore/semaphore.yml`

The path to the input pipeline file during the initialization job.

### Output file {#output-file}

- **Environment variable**: `OUTPUT_FILE`
- **Default value**: `.semaphore/semaphore.yml.output.yml`

The path to the output pipeline file during the initialization job. This file is used by Semaphore to lay out the jobs for the pipeline.

### Logs file {#logs-file}

- **Environment variable**: `LOGS_FILE`
- **Default value**: `.semaphore/semaphore.yml.logs.jsonl`

The path to the log file during the initialization job.

## See also

- [Docker containers](../using-semaphore/containers/docker)
- [How to configure jobs](../using-semaphore/jobs)
- [Semaphore pipelines](../using-semaphore/pipelines)
- [Pipeline YAML reference](./pipeline-yaml)

Commit message:

docs: add organization ID variable to env vars reference page

docs/docs/reference/env-vars.md, after:

---
description: Environment variables defined by Semaphore
---

# Environment variables

## Semaphore variables {#semaphore-variables}

These variables describe various aspects of Semaphore workings.

### CI {#ci}

- **Environment variable**: `CI`
- **Example**: `true`

Holds `true` when the session runs in a Semaphore continuous integration (CI) environment.

### Semaphore {#semaphore}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE`
- **Example**: `true`

Holds `true` when the session is running in a Semaphore environment.

### Agent environment type {#agent-machine-environment-type}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_AGENT_MACHINE_ENVIRONMENT_TYPE`
- **Example**: `container`

Defines the type of environment for the current job.

Possible values are:

- `container`: job running inside a Docker container
- `VM`: job running on a virtual machine

### Agent OS image {#agent-machine-os-image}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_AGENT_MACHINE_OS_IMAGE`
- **Example**: `ubuntu2004`

The name of the operating system image active in the current job.

See [machine types](./machine-types) for all available options.

### Agent machine type {#agent-machine-type}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_AGENT_MACHINE_TYPE`
- **Example**: `e1-standard-2`

The type of agent running the current job.

See [machine types](./machine-types) for all available options.

### Job creation time {#job-creation-time}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_JOB_CREATION_TIME`
- **Example**: `1632943641`

The UNIX epoch seconds when the current job was created.

### Job id {#job-id}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_JOB_ID`
- **Example**: `a26d42cf-89ac-4c3f-9e2d-51bb231897bf`

The unique identifier for the current job. Semaphore automatically generates unique IDs for every job.

You can view all the job IDs using the [sem CLI](./semaphore-cli):

- **Get active jobs**: execute `sem get jobs`
- **Get most recent jobs**: execute `sem get jobs --all`

### Job name {#job-name}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_JOB_NAME`
- **Example**: `Push image to Docker`

A string with a user-supplied name for the job.

### Job count {#job-count}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_JOB_COUNT`
- **Example**: 4

Only available when [job parallelism](../using-semaphore/jobs#job-parallelism) is enabled. This variable holds the total number of jobs configured in job parallelism.

It can be used to configure a test partitioning strategy using a 3rd party test runner.

### Job index {#job-index}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_JOB_INDEX`
- **Example**: 1

Only available when [job parallelism](../using-semaphore/jobs#job-parallelism) is enabled. This is a 1-based index that represents the current job instance in parallel set. The value ranges between 1 and [`SEMAPHORE_JOB_COUNT`](#job-count).

It can be used to configure a test partitioning strategy using a 3rd party test runner.

### Job result {#job-result}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_JOB_RESULT`
- **Example**: `passed`

Describes the ending state of the job. The possible states are:

- `none`: the job has not yet finished
- `passed`: the job finished successfully
- `failed`: the job finished in failure
- `stopped`: the job was terminated before completion

:::note

This variable is only available in the [job epilogue](../using-semaphore/jobs#epilogue).

:::

### Job type {#job-type}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_JOB_TYPE`
- **Example**: `pipeline_job`

Describes why the current job was created. The possible values are:

- `pipeline_job`: a regular job created by Semaphore as part of the workflow
- `project_debug_job`: job created with [`sem debug project`](./semaphore-cli#sem-debug-project)
- `debug_job`: job created with [`sem debug job`](./semaphore-cli#sem-debug)

### Block name {#block-name}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_BLOCK_NAME`
- **Example**: `Security checks`

A string with a user-supplied block name.

### Organization URL {#organization-url}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_ORGANIZATION_URL`
- **Example**: `https://my-org.semaphoreci.com`

The URL for the organization that owns the project running the current job.

### Organization ID {#organization-id}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_ORGANIZATION_ID`
- **Example**: `f580f012-1b80-437f-acaf-be038f827270`

The unique identifier for your organization.

### Pipeline ID {#pipeline-id}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_PIPELINE_ID`
- **Example**: `ea3e6bba-d19a-45d7-86a0-e78a2301b616`

The unique identifier for the current workflow. All jobs that belong to the same pipeline share the same ID.

### Pipeline name {#pipeline-name}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_PIPELINE_NAME`
- **Example**: `my-pipeline`

The name of the pipeline.

### Pipeline is promotion {#pipeline-promotion}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_PIPELINE_PROMOTION`
- **Example**: `true`

Holds `true` when the pipeline was started due to a [promotion](../using-semaphore/promotions). It is always `false` for the initial pipeline that starts the workflow.

### Pipeline promoted by {#pipeline-promoted-by}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_PIPELINE_PROMOTED_BY`
- **Example**: `torvalds`

Determines the individual that promoted the pipeline. There are three possible cases:

- **Initial pipelines**: the variable contains an empty string
- **Manual promotions**: the GitHub or BitBucket username that manually promoted the pipeline
- [Auto-promotions](../using-semaphore/promotions#automatic-promotions): the value is `auto-promotion`

### Pipeline is rerun {#pipeline-rerun}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_PIPELINE_RERUN`
- **Example**: `true`

Holds `true` when the pipeline is rerun by the user.

### Project ID {#project-id}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_PROJECT_ID`
- **Example**: `0dd982e8-32f5-4037-983e-4de01ac7fb1e`

The project unique identifier that the job session belongs to. Semaphore automatically assigns unique IDs to every project.

### Project name {#project-name}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_PROJECT_NAME`
- **Example**: `my-awesome-project`

The name of the project that a job belongs to.

### Workflow ID {#workflow-id}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_WORKFLOW_ID`
- **Example**: `0dd982e8-32f5-4037-983e-4de01ac7fb1e`

The workflow unique identifier. All jobs belonging to all pipelines in the workflow share this same ID. This includes the initial pipeline and all manually or auto-promoted pipelines in the same build.

### Workflow number {#workflow-number}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_WORKFLOW_NUMBER`
- **Example**: `42`

This value tracks how many workflows have run for the current branch, tag, or pull request. Each context starts at `1`, and the counter increases by one on every push or workflow rerun within that same branch, tag, or pull request. Debug jobs do not increment the number.

The value remains constant during a workflow run and is available to all jobs in every pipeline that belongs to the workflow, including the initial pipeline and any manually or auto-promoted pipelines in the same build.

### Workflow is rerun {#workflow-rerun}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_WORKFLOW_RERUN`
- **Example**: `true`

Holds `true` if the workflow is a rerun of a previously-ran workflow.

### Workflow triggered by {#workflow-triggered-by}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_WORKFLOW_TRIGGERED_BY`
- **Example**: `torvalds`

Determines the GitHub or BitBucket username for the individual who ran the workflow.

### Workflow is triggered by API {#workflow-triggered-by-api}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_WORKFLOW_TRIGGERED_BY_API`
- **Example**: `true`

Holds `true` if the workflow was triggered using the [Semaphore API](../reference/api)

<!-- new api: [Semaphore API](../openapi-spec/workflows-schedule) -->

The variable is `false` if the workflow is triggered by a Git push, pull request, or via [Tasks](../using-semaphore/tasks).

### Workflow is triggered by hook {#workflow-triggered-by-hook}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_WORKFLOW_TRIGGERED_BY_HOOK`
- **Example**: `true`

Holds `true` if the workflow was triggered by a Git push to the repository. It's also true for Git tags and pull requests.

The variable is `false` when the workflow is triggered via the [Semaphore API](./api) or using [Tasks](../using-semaphore/tasks).

<!-- [Semaphore API](../category/api-specification) -->

### Workflow is triggered manually {#workflow-triggered-by-manual-run}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_WORKFLOW_TRIGGERED_BY_MANUAL_RUN`
- **Example**: `true`

Holds `true` if the workflow was triggered by a user through the Semaphore UI.

The variable is `false` when the workflow is triggered by Git push, pull request, Tasks, or the [Semaphore API](./api).

<!-- [Semaphore API](../category/api-specification). -->

### Workflow is triggered by task {#workflow-triggered-by-schedule}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_WORKFLOW_TRIGGERED_BY_SCHEDULE`
- **Example**: `true`

Holds `true` if the workflow was triggered using [Tasks](../using-semaphore/tasks).

## Git repository variables {#git-variables}

These variables give Git-related information about the repository that is liked to the project the job is running.

### Branch (upstream) {#git-branch}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_GIT_BRANCH`
- **Example**: `main`

The Git branch is used in the current job. On pull requests, the value is the name of the upstream branch targeted by the merge.

For example, if you create a branch called `featureA` and create a pull request to merge to `main`, then `SEMAPHORE_GIT_BRANCH=main`.

### Working branch (downstream) {#git-working-branch}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_GIT_WORKING_BRANCH`
- **Example**: `featureA`

The name of the branch used in the current job. On pull request, this is the downstream branch that would be merged.

For example, if you create a branch called `featureA` and create a pull request to merge to `main`, then `SEMAPHORE_GIT_WORKING_BRANCH=featureA`.

:::note

The variable is *missing* when the workflow is triggered by pushing the Git tag.

:::

### Commit author {#commit-author}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_GIT_COMMIT_AUTHOR`
- **Example**: `torvalds`

The GitHub or Bitbucket username of the person who authored the revision.

### Commit range {#commit-range}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_GIT_COMMIT_RANGE`
- **Example**: `5c84719708b9b649b9ef3b56af214f38cee6acde...92d87d5c0dd2dbb7a68ecb27df43d1b164fd3e30`

The range of SHA commits that were included in a push or pull request.

This is empty for builds triggered by the initial commit of a new branch or tag.

### Commit SHA {#commit-sha}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_GIT_SHA`
- **Example**: `5c84719708b9b649b9ef3b56af214f38cee6acde`

The current Git SHA revision of the code that the job is using.

### Cache age {#git-cache-age}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_GIT_CACHE_AGE`
- **Example**: `259200`

Used only when running [`checkout --use-cache`](./toolbox#cache-full-clone). It specifies how often the Semaphore Git Cache is updated, expressed in seconds. The default is 259200 (3 days).

### Cache keep {#git-cache-keep}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_GIT_CACHE_KEEP`
- **Example**: `1`

Used only when running [`checkout --use-cache`](./toolbox#cache-full-clone). It how many copies of the repository should be maintained in the Semaphore Git Cache. Older copies are automatically deleted.

The default value is 0, which means that Semaphore maintains only 1 copy of the repository. If you set it to 1, Semaphore will maintain 2 copies of the repository.

### Committer {#committer}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_GIT_COMMITTER`
- **Example**: `torvalds`

The GitHub or Bitbucket username of the person who authored the revision.

### Depth {#git-depth}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_GIT_DEPTH`
- **Example**: `50`

Holds the shallow clone depth level for the [checkout](./toolbox.md#checkout) command. The default value is 50.

### Git provider {#git-provider}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_GIT_PROVIDER`
- **Example**: `bitbucket`, `github`

The Git provider the repository is hosted on. Possible values are `bitbucket` or `github`.

### Git reference {#git-reference}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_GIT_REF`
- **Example**: `refs/heads/master`

The Git reference the commit that the job is using.

### Git reference type {#git-reference-type}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_GIT_REF_TYPE`
- **Example**: `branch`, `tag`, or `pull-request`

The type of Git reference. Possible values are: `branch`, `tag`, or `pull-request`.

### Git URL {#git-url}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_GIT_URL`
- **Example**: `http://git@github.com:semaphoreci/toolbox.git`

The URL of the repository used in the current Semaphore project.

### Pull request branch {#pr-branch}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_GIT_PR_BRANCH`
- **Example**: `featureA`

The name of the Git branch from which the Pull Request originated (upstream)

:::note

Present only for builds where `SEMAPHORE_GIT_REF_TYPE=pull-request`

:::

### Pull request name {#pr-name}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_GIT_PR_NAME`
- **Example**: `Update Readme.md`

The name of the Pull Request that originated the workflow.

:::note

Present only for builds where `SEMAPHORE_GIT_REF_TYPE=pull-request`

:::

### Pull request number {#pr-number}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_GIT_PR_NUMBER`
- **Example**: `1`

The number of the Pull Request.

:::note

Present only for builds where `SEMAPHORE_GIT_REF_TYPE=pull-request`

:::

### Pull request SHA {#pr-sha}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_GIT_PR_SHA`
- **Example**: `5c84719708b9b649b9ef3b56af214f38cee6acd3`

The Git SHA of the HEAD commit of the Pull Request.

:::note

Present only for builds where `SEMAPHORE_GIT_REF_TYPE=pull-request`

:::

### Pull request slug {#pr-slug}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_GIT_PR_SLUG`
- **Example**: `semaphoreci/semaphore`

The name in the format `owner_name/repo_name` of the repository from which the Pull Request originated.

To distinguish workflows from original and forked repositories, you can compare [`SEMAPHORE_GIT_PR_SLUG`](#pr-slug) and [`SEMAPHORE_GIT_REPO_SLUG`](#git-repo-slug) environment variables.

:::note

Present only for builds where `SEMAPHORE_GIT_REF_TYPE=pull-request`

:::

### Repository directory {#git-dir}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_GIT_DIR`
- **Example**: `src`

The name of the directory that contains the files of the repository linked to the current Semaphore project.

### Repository name {#git-repo-name}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_GIT_REPO_NAME`
- **Example**: `my-awesome-app`

The name of the Git repository name for the current Semaphore project.

### Repository slug {#git-repo-slug}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_GIT_REPO_SLUG`
- **Example**: `semaphoreci/my-awesome-app`

The repository name in the form `owner/repo-name` for the current Semaphore project.

### Tag name {#git-tag-name}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_GIT_TAG_NAME`
- **Example**: `v1.0.0`

The name of the Git tag used in the current job.

:::note

Present only for builds where `SEMAPHORE_GIT_REF_TYPE=tag`.

:::

## After pipeline variables

The following variables are available during [after pipeline jobs](../using-semaphore/pipelines#after-pipeline-job).

### Pipeline created at {#pipeline-created-at}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_PIPELINE_CREATED_AT`
- **Example**: `1632943641`

The UNIX epoch timestamp when the pipeline was created.

### Pipeline done at {#pipeline-done-at}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_PIPELINE_DONE_AT`
- **Example**: `1632943650`

The UNIX epoch timestamp when the pipeline was finished.

### Pipeline init duration {#pipeline-init-duration}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_PIPELINE_INIT_DURATION`
- **Example**: `1`

Duration of the pipeline initialization stage expressed in seconds.

### Pipeline queueing duration {#pipeline-queueing-duration}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_PIPELINE_QUEUEING_DURATION`
- **Example**: `1`

The time that the pipeline spent in the queue is expressed in seconds.

### Pipeline result {#pipeline-result}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_PIPELINE_RESULT`
- **Example**: `failed`, `passed`, `canceled`, `stopped`

Contains the result of the pipeline. Possible values are: `failed`, `passed`, `canceled`, `stopped`

### Pipeline result reason {#pipeline-result-reason}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_PIPELINE_RESULT_REASON`
- **Example**: `test`, `malformed`, `stuck`, `internal`, `user`, `strategy`, `timeout`

The reason for the pipeline result. Possible values are: `test`, `malformed`, `stuck`, `internal`, `user`, `strategy`, `timeout`

### Pipeline running duration {#pipeline-running-duration}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_PIPELINE_RUNNING_DURATION`
- **Example**: `12`

The total pipeline execution time is expressed in seconds.

### Pipeline started at {#pipeline-started-at}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_PIPELINE_STARTED_AT`
- **Example**: `1632943642`

The UNIX epoch timestamp when the pipeline started running jobs.

### Pipeline total duration {#pipeline-total-duration}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_PIPELINE_TOTAL_DURATION`
- **Example**: `10`

The total duration of the pipeline including queuing time expressed in seconds.

## Cache variables {#cache-variables}

These variables are used to access the [cache](../using-semaphore/cache).

### Cache URL {#cache-url}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_CACHE_URL`
- **Example**: `94.130.158.146:29920`

The IP address and the port number of the cache server.

### Username {#cache-username}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_CACHE_USERNAME`
- **Example**: `0614ef08af7a408d8aae45b029ba3bb8`

The username is used for connecting to the cache server.

### Private Key Path {#cache-private-key-path}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_CACHE_PRIVATE_KEY_PATH`
- **Example**: `/home/semaphore/.ssh/semaphore_cache_key`

The path in the server to the SSH key file to access the cache server.

## Semaphore Docker registry variables {#registry-variables}

These variables can be used to access the [Semaphore Docker registry](../using-semaphore/containers/docker).

### Username {#registry-username}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_REGISTRY_USERNAME`

Username to access the Semaphore Docker Registry.

### Password {#registry-password}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_REGISTRY_PASSWORD`

Password to access the Semaphore Docker Registry.

### Registry URL {#registry-url}

- **Environment variable**: `SEMAPHORE_REGISTRY_URL`

The URL to access the Semaphore Docker Registry.

## Initialization job variables {#init}

This section describes the special variables available during the [initialization jobs](../using-semaphore/pipelines#init-job) and [pre-flight checks](../using-semaphore/org-preflight) in addition to the regular job environment variables explained above.

### Input file {#input-file}

- **Environment variable**: `INPUT_FILE`
- **Default value**: `.semaphore/semaphore.yml`

The path to the input pipeline file during the initialization job.

### Output file {#output-file}

- **Environment variable**: `OUTPUT_FILE`
- **Default value**: `.semaphore/semaphore.yml.output.yml`

The path to the output pipeline file during the initialization job. This file is used by Semaphore to lay out the jobs for the pipeline.

### Logs file {#logs-file}

- **Environment variable**: `LOGS_FILE`
- **Default value**: `.semaphore/semaphore.yml.logs.jsonl`

The path to the log file during the initialization job.

## See also

- [Docker containers](../using-semaphore/containers/docker)
- [How to configure jobs](../using-semaphore/jobs)
- [Semaphore pipelines](../using-semaphore/pipelines)
- [Pipeline YAML reference](./pipeline-yaml)
